• In the first stage, there is a computer-based procedures to detect tumor blocks and classify the
type of tumor using Artificial Neural Network Algorithm for MRI images of different patients.
• The second stage involves the use of different image processing techniques such as histogram
equalization, image segmentation, image enhancement, morphological operations and feature extraction
are used for brain tumor detection in the MRI images for the cancer-affected patients.
• This work is introduced one automatic brain tumor detection method to increase the accuracy
and decrease the diagnosis time.
Image preprocessing: This method uses scanned images from MRIs, which contain noise. Thus,
cleaning up the input image of noise is our first goal. As stated in the system flow, high pass filters are
used for preprocessing and noise reduction.
Segmentation: The simplest method for segmenting images based on regions is region growth. The
approach in question is categorised as pixel-based picture segmentation as well since it necessitates the
first seed point selection.
Morphological operation: The border regions of the brain pictures are extracted using the
morphological operation. This technique works only with binary pictures since it simply rearranges the
relative order of pixel values—not their mathematical values. The fundamental process of morphology
is dilation and erosion. Dilation is the addition of pixels to an object's boundary region, whereas erosion
is the removal of pixels from the same boundary region.
Feature Extraction: The pictures' edges are detected by the application of feature extraction. It is the
process of gathering more complex picture details including contrast, colour, texture, and shape. •
Connected component labelling: Each collection of connected pixels with the same gray-level values
is given the same distinct area name after the connected components of an image have been identified.


Tumour Identification: During this stage, we are extracting characteristics from a collection of
previously acquired brain MRIs. A knowledge base is produced in order to compare.
a) In the first step we can take image as input. In the image we used tumor in the image and only fat and
water tissues in the images.
b)In the second step convert image to grayscale
>Signal to noise
>Complexity of the code
>Learning image processing
>Difficulty of visualization
c)Then we convert image to binary image by thresholding.
Thresholding is the simplest method of image segmentation and the most common way to
convert a grayscale image to binary image. In thresholding we select threshold value and then gray level
value below the selected threshold value is classified as 0.and equal and greater then the threshold value
are classified as 1.
d)Find the number of connected object
e)Find mask by assigning 1 to inside and 0 to outside of the object that show brain region.
f)Multiply the mask with T1,T2 and FLAIR MR images to get their skull stripped MR image
g)T1 & T2: weighted MRI
FLAIR: fluid attenuated inversion recovery weighted MRI.
Types of MRI images
T1: one tissue type is bright-FAT T2: two tissue types are bright-FAT and water
